I"h	<p>The mid-18th century was a time of changing tides from a political standpoint that sowed the seeds of democracy in America as we know it today and culminated in the founding of America in 1776. In the early 18th century, the number of contested elections in colonial assemblies rapidly grew. In Boston for example, during the 1720s, a mere 30% of elections were contested. By the 1750s, this figure grew to 60%. Alongside the growth of contested elections was the growth of voter participation and harsh political rhetoric against opposing candidates. Quickly, caucuses and political clubs began forming aimed at pushing political agendas and attacking opponents. These new developments in the political arena of the mid-18th century were the beginnings and harbingers of what we know today to be the typical approach in political campaigns in modern day America. Of course, the political leaders of this time were not aiming to form the seeds for the future democratic setting that would eventually come to be in America - rather, they were utilizing the tactics that they had at their disposal in order to win their elections at hand and gain office. These political groups aimed to appeal to the people for the first time, and the colonial assemblies that had previously been behind closed doors were now in public settings. In the 1750s, they began publishing compositions of their laws and documents that delineated how their members would vote on certain issues. By the 1760s, they began constructing galleries in legislative halls to give people the opportunity to view debates. Many advocated to widen these initiatives to further integrate the people into the political process - those who were against these measures were considered to be “enemies of the people.” Evidently, democracy in America did not come to fruition as a result of the people arousing themselves on their own accord and demanding for a share in political authority. Rather, democracy was structured and created from within the existing political base itself. The people were urged and persuaded to get involved, and once mobilized, could not easily be suppressed from then on. By the 1760s, the landscape of American politics was primed for the fundamental transformation from monarchy to representative government, and a government of the people, by the people, and for the people.</p>

<p>Happy July 4th everyone!</p>
:ET